(A) The intronless CHLC gene encodes a protein with a putative oxygenase domain. The schematic shows the positions of genotyping primers CHLC-F and CHLC-R and also the position of the single-guide RNA (sgRNA) used in CRISPR-Cas9 mutagenesis. (B) Part of an agar plate containing colonies from a transformation designed to disrupt CHLC. Green and brown arrows point to example transformants that we rated as green and brown clones. (C) A schematic representation of the additional, episomal copy of the CHLC gene present in the complemented COMP1 line. (D) A photograph of liquid cultures of the wild type, three mutants disrupted in CHLC, and the COMP1 line. (E) Agarose gel electrophoresis of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products yielded from wild type, chlc mutants, and the COMP1 line using the two primer pairs shown in (A) and (C). Strains are numbered consistently across panels (E) to (G). bp, base pair. (F) Part of the sequencing results from the PCR product yielded by COMP1 using the primer pair CHLC-F–GFP-R; the size and sequence are consistent with an intact CHLC-GFP fusion gene. (G) Genotyping results of the chlc mutants and COMP1. Sequencing results from the PCR products in (E) are shown. Nucleotide positions in the coding sequence of CHLC are labeled. For COMP1, the sequence signals were mixed because both the mutated copy and the episomal copy on the episome were amplifiable using the CHLC-F–CHLC-R primer pair. In (F) and (G), synonymous substitutions in the episomal copy of CHLC are shown with a red shade. These were designed to avoid further editing of this episomal copy (see materials and methods). (H) HPLC analyses of pigment extracts of wild type, chlc mutants, and the COMP1 line. The traces were normalized against the height of the Chl a peak in each sample. The parts containing Chl c2 and Chl c1 peaks in wild type and COMP1 as well as that containing DVP and MVP peaks in chlc-1 are magnified and shown on the left for clarity. The absorption spectra of these four peaks are presented on the left. Car, carotene; Ddx, diadinoxanthin; Fx, fucoxanthin; Rel. Abs., relative absorbance. For (D) and (H), representative results from no less than three replicates are shown.