(A and B) Recombinant CLN5 synthesizes BMP. Representative extracted ion chromatograms (EIC) for LPG (18:1) and BMP (18:1/18:1) from a reaction between recombinant CLN5 and LPG (18:1) under acidic conditions (pH = 5). Retention time corresponds to 3,3′ BMP isoform though acyl migration may occur in vitro. (C) BMPS activity results in glycerophosphoglycerol (GPG) release. Representative EIC for GPG byproduct release. (D) MS/MS spectral confirmation of CLN5-synthesized BMP (18:1/18:1) compared with commercial standard. (E) BMPS is a moderately active enzyme. (Left) Representative Michaelis-Menten curve (MM) for BMPS activity toward LPG (18:1) using GPG to monitor the reaction in acidic conditions. (Right) Lineweaver-Burk transformation of MM curve. Experiment was performed at least three times. Kcat (catalytic rate constant) and Km (Michaelis constant) (F) Schematic for recombinant BMPS (rBMPS) supplementation experiment. HEK293T-conditioned media were supplemented with rBMPS for 48 hours prior to lipid analysis. (G) rBMPS rescues BMP deficiency and LPG storage. Fold changes in levels of BMP and LPG species were normalized to endogenous lipid. Data presented as mean ± SD of n = 4 biologically independent samples. (H) BMPS interacts with BMP liposomes. Recombinant BMPS was incubated with 75:25% mol POPC:BMP (18:1/18:1) liposomes under acidic and neutral conditions until reaction reached equilibrium tested by repeated temporal measurements. Data presented as mean ± SD of n = 3 technical replicates. Experiment was performed at least three times (I) BMP-laden liposomes stimulate BMP synthesis. Recombinant BMPS was incubated with either 100% mol POPC or 75:25% mol POPC/BMP (18:1/18:1) liposomes containing equimolar LPG (18:1). Representative graph shown for experiment performed at least three times. (J) Amiodarone inhibits BMPS activity toward monomeric and liposomal LPG. Recombinant BMPS was incubated with either monomeric LPG (18:1) or liposomal LPG (18:1) in the presence or absence of amiodarone. Data presented as mean ± SD of n = 4 biologically independent samples. (K) Diagram for BMPS activity at a lipid:water interface. BMP-laden vesicles enhance BMPS activity toward LPG. This activation is significantly inhibited by cationic amphiphilic drugs (CADs) such as amiodarone.