Calculated three-dimensional plot of the V1 band with Berry curvature shading at U = –40 meV for (A) K and (B) K′ valleys. K and K′ valleys have equal and opposite nonzero Berry curvature and equal and opposite orbital magnetic moment (orbital moments depicted schematically). Eb is the D-dependent energy of the bottom of the V1 band. (C) A comparison of the calculated first- (m′) and second-order (χ′) correction magnitude with the extended Onsager relation for the V1 TDBG band (U = –40 meV). See fig. S5 and S6 for additional phase contribution results (42). (D) Calculation of the first few LLs (n = 0, 1, and 2) versus B, comparing quantum mechanical to semiclassical methods with zeroth-, first-, and second-order corrections. The first-order correction is grossly deficient in matching the quantum results, particularly in the n = 0 level, whereas including both first- and second-order corrections provides a good agreement with the quantum results (U = –40 meV). (E) Tunneling spectra of the LL0 peak as a function of B for D = –0.25 V nm–1 that show a splitting of the LLs in high magnetic fields. The red lines indicate peak positions determined from nonlinear least-square fitting of a double Lorentzian function to LL0. (F) Quantum calculation of LL0 as a function of magnetic field for an interlayer potential U = –40 meV, corresponding to a displacement field of D = –0.25 V nm–1. The LL shows a valley splitting upon application of a displacement field. The solid black lines have a Gaussian energy broadening of σ = 1 meV to match experiment; gray lines, σ = 0.05 meV. (G) The energy difference of the split n = 0 LL from (E) compared with quantum calculations in (F). For the quantum calculation in higher fields, we plot the splitting as the difference in energy between lowest levels in the Hofstadter bands of the K and K′ valleys. The uncertainty in the experimental points is derived from twice the standard deviation obtained from the nonlinear least-square fits of the peaks in (E). For comparison, the solid lines show the calculated Zeeman splitting with Landé g factor of (black) g = 2 and (red) 6.5.
