(A) Relative succinate levels in sgSCR (control) and sgMcj (Mcj knockout) YUMM1.7 cells. Data are presented as fold change relative to sgSCR cells. (B) Cell surface MHC-I expression on sgSCR and sgMcj YUMM1.7 cells (n = 10). MHC-I expression is presented as fold change relative to sgSCR cells. (C) RT-qPCR analysis of indicated representative MHC-APP genes in sgSCR and sgMcj YUMM1.7 cells. Expression levels are presented as fold change relative to sgSCR cells. Each data point represents a technical replicate of one biological sample. Similar results were obtained with an independent biological replicate. (D) Cell surface MHC-I expression on sgMcj YUMM1.7 cells ± SDHA overexpression (n = 4). Data are presented as the fold change relative to sgSCR-vector cells. (E to I) YUMM1.7-sgSCR (n = 5 mice) and sgMcj (n = 5 mice) cells were subcutaneously injected in flanks of C57BL/6 male mice and monitored for tumor formation for 20 days. Shown are tumor growth curves (tumor volume versus time is plotted) (E), tumor weight at day 20 (in grams) (F), cell surface MHC-I expression relative to sgSCR tumor cells at day 20 (G), number of tumor-infiltrating CD45+ cells (per gram of tumor) at day 20 (H), and CD4+ and CD8+ T cells (per gram of tumor) at day 20 (I). These data are representative of three independent experiments. (J) Percentage of IFN-γ+ and GZMB+ positive tumor infiltrating CD8+ T cells in sgSCR and sgMcj YUMM1.7 tumors. (K) Tumor weights in grams of sgSCR and sgMcj YUMM1.7 tumors from C57BL/6 mice treated with immunoglobulin G (IgG) isotype (αIgG) and anti-CD8 (αCD8) depleting antibodies for 21 days every second day. (L) Uniform manifold approximation and projection (UMAP) of 8274 CD8+ T cells from YUMM1.7-sgSCR and sgMcj tumors showing the formation of two clusters with the respective labels. Each dot corresponds to a single cell, color-coded by the sample type (gray, sgSCR; orange, sgMcj). (M) UMAP from Seurat of CD8+ T cells into four distinct clusters according to differentiation and functional marker expression. Each dot represents a single cell, color-coded by the cluster type. (N) UMAPs showing average expression of functional signatures in CD8+ T cell clusters identified in (M). The differentiation and functional markers defining the cluster are shown at the top. (O) UMAP of CD8+ T cells overlaid with TCR clonal abundance. Each dot represents a single cell, color-coded by the number of TCR clones present. Data points in each panel represent an independent sample unless otherwise specified. Data are plotted as means ± SDs for (A) to (D) and means ± SEMs for (E) to (K). Statistical significance was determined by unpaired Welch t test for (A) and (B), two-way ANOVA with Dunnett’s multiple comparisons test for (C), one-way ANOVA with Dunnett’s multiple comparisons test for (D), unpaired Mann-Whitney test for (E) to (H) and (J), two-way ANOVA with Sidak’s multiple comparisons test for (I), and two-way ANOVA with Tukey’s multiple comparisons test for (K).