(A) Schematic of experiment that demonstrates anesthetized CF-ChR2 animal subjected to open thoracotomy with optical stimulation of scar tissue and simultaneous surface ECG recording by using limb leads. (B) ECG recording before, during, and after optical stimulation of scar tissue at 7 Hz (blue bars represent optical stimulation pulses). (C to E) Magnified recordings demonstrating atrial (P waves, black arrows) and ventricular activity (QRS complexes, blue arrows) from recordings before (C), during (D), and after (E) stimulation. Note that atrial (P-P) rate and ventricular (R-R) rates are different in (D), which confirms the dissociation of atrial and ventricular rhythm during optical stimulation followed by resumption of sinus rhythm poststimulation. (F and G) Surface ECG recording after optical stimulation of myocardium remote to scar tissue (F) or scar in Cre (−) animal (G). (H to J) LV pressure recording before and after optical stimulation in live CF-ChR2 animal. (H) Technical schematic showing introduction of pressure catheter through the carotid into the LV. (I) Surface ECG demonstrating electrical activity before, during, and after optical stimulation. (J) Simultaneous recording of LV pressures (note that increased cardiac electrical activity is associated with increased frequency of synchronous beats that generate LV pressure). (K to O) Arrhythmogenesis noted in a subset of animal hearts after optical stimulation of scar tissue. (K) Electrical recording from intact perfused heart before, during, and after optical stimulation, which demonstrates ventricular bigeminy (paired beats) that was sustained for 1 min in the absence of any further perturbations. (L) Surface ECG from live animal subjected to optical stimulation of scar that demonstrates high-grade AV block. Note the loss of 1:1 conduction between atrial (P wave, black arrows) and ventricular (QRS complex, blue arrows) activity. (M to O) Heart of CF-ChR2 animal harvested 3 months after MI and subjected to optical stimulation demonstrates ventricular asystole after cessation of optical stimulation (M), and magnified view of ventricular rhythm before (N) and after (O) stimulation demonstrates absence of any ventricular rhythm poststimulation (representative tracings, n = 15 per group).