(A) Normalized decays of fs transient absorption of ps1 at 412 nm and 483 nm within the (ps1)2⊂H homodimer (excitation wavelength, λexc = 500 nm). Points, raw data; lines, four-exponential fits (details can be found in the supplementary materials). norm., normalized. (B) Normalized transient-absorption decays of ps1 at 483 nm (λexc = 500 nm) in (ps1)2⊂H versus the (E-9⋅ps1)⊂H heterodimer (linear scale in the 0 to 1 ps time range; logarithmic scale beyond 1 ps). (Inset) The same data plotted on the linear scale. (C) Decays of μs transient absorption at 430 nm (λexc = 510 nm) in (ps1)2⊂H in the presence of increasing amounts of (E-9)2⊂H. The thin and thick lines correspond to experimental data and biexponential fits, respectively. (Inset) The inverse correlation between ΔAbs*430 (absorbance at 430 nm immediately after photoexcitation) and ΔAbs∞430 (steady-state absorbance after photoswitching). All the TAS results presented here were collected under ambient (nondeoxygenated) conditions. (D) The calculated energies of the E-1⋅ps1 heterodimer’s lowest excited states: the bright singlet state (Sps1) and the two lowest triplet states, localized on ps1 and E-1 (Tps1 and TE-1, respectively) (details can be found in fig. S116). The arrows indicate the sequence of events ( indicates a photoinduced transition; the gray arrow indicates an endothermic process). (E) Ground-state relaxed scan along the C–N=N–C dihedral angle Φ in 1 within the 1⋅ps1 heterodimer. The gray line denotes the ground state (S0), the red line denotes the Sps1 state, and the blue lines denote the TE-1 and Tps1 states. The circular and triangular markers correspond to the localization of the excited state on the donor (ps1) and acceptor (E-1), respectively. (F) Ground-state relaxed scan of Φ in 1 within the (1⋅ps1)⊂H heterodimer (orange trace). The blue trace shows the energies that correspond to the same configurations of 1 and ps1 after removing the host and its interactions. (i), (ii), and (iii) correspond to ΔΦ values 0°, +165°, and –170°, respectively. (G) Optimized geometries of (1⋅ps1)⊂H for the three ΔΦ values indicated in (F) (left, side views; right, top views). The distances between the indicated equatorial Pd nodes describe the degree of host deformation; the larger the difference between the two Pd–Pd distances, the greater the transition of H from a tube-like conformation into a bowl-like conformation.