(A) Overview of the experimental approach enabling regeneration across an anatomically complete SCI and into walking execution centers. (B) Chronophotography of walking with (bottom) and without (top) mechanism-based combinatorial regeneration mimicking natural repair processes. (C) Walking was quantified using principal component analysis as described in Fig. 1F (n > 10 gait cycles per mouse, n = 6 mice per group, n = 5 mice in the uninjured and SCI only groups). Raw data and statistics are provided in data S6. (D) The number of mice from two cohorts of combinatorial treated animals at 8 weeks post-SCI that were assigned to each main experimental group. Mice were almost exclusively assigned by the classifier (see materials and methods,) to the natural repair group, indicating that the walking patterns of regenerated mice most resemble those that underwent natural repair. (E) Experimental design for cell type–specific diphtheria toxin–mediated neuron ablation of Vsx2ON neurons in the mid-thoracic spinal cord and intersectional chemogenetic inactivation of regenerated Vsx2ON neurons following mechanism-based combinatorial regeneration. (F) Chronophotography of walking in Vsx2Cre mice that received mechanism-based combinatorial regeneration mimicking natural repair processes coupled to viral injections of AAV5-CAG-FLEX-DTR to induce cell type–specific neuronal ablation. (G) Walking was quantified using principal component analysis as described in Fig. 1F (n > 10 gait cycles per mouse, n = 4 mice per group, n = 5 mice in the SCI only group). Raw data and statistics are provided in data S8. (H) Mice were recorded before (left) and after (right) 1-week administration of diphtheria toxin. Bar graphs indicate the number of mice from each group that were assigned to each main experimental group (see materials and methods). (I) As in (E) but for intersectional chemogenetic inactivation of regenerated Vsx2ON neurons in the mid-thoracic spinal cord. (J) As in (F) but for intersectional chemogenetic inactivation of regenerated Vsx2ON neurons in the mid-thoracic spinal cord. (K) As in (G) (n > 10 gait cycles per mouse, n = 5 mice per group). Raw data and statistics are provided in data S9. (L) As in (H) but for intersectional chemogenetic inactivation of regenerated Vsx2ON neurons in the mid-thoracic spinal cord.