(A) Cell surface MHC-I expression on sgSCR, sgSdha, and sgSdhc YUMM1.7 cells (n = 6). MHC-I expression is presented as fold change relative to sgSCR cells. A representative histogram is shown on the left. (B) Cell surface MHC-I expression on YUMM1.7 (n = 6) and 4T1 (n = 6) cells treated with DMSO (vehicle control), rotenone (CI inhibitor), or 3-NPA (CII inhibitor) for 48 hours. MHC-I expression is presented as fold change relative to DMSO-treated cells. A representative histogram is shown on the left. (C) Reverse-transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) analysis of indicated representative MHC-APP genes in YUMM1.7 cells treated with DMSO, rotenone, and 3-NPA for 48 hours. Here, B2m is MHC-I light-chain; H2-d and H2-k1 represent MHC-I heavy-chain; Lmp2 and Lmp7 represent immunoproteasome subunits; Tap1, Tap2, Tapbp, and Tapbpl represent antigen transporters and peptide loading complex in the endoplasmic reticulum; and Nlrc5, Irf1, and Stat1 are transcription factors. Expression levels are presented as fold change relative to DMSO-treated cells. Each data point represents a technical replicate from one biological sample. Similar results were obtained with two independent biological replicates. (D) Cell surface MHC-I expression on DMSO- and 3-NPA–treated sgNlrc5 (NLRC5 knockout; n = 4) and sgIrf1 (IRF1 knockout; n = 4) YUMM1.7 cells. MHC-I expression is presented as fold change relative to DMSO-treated sgSCR (control) cells. (E) Steady-state levels of metabolites in YUMM1.7 cells treated with DMSO, rotenone, and 3-NPA for 48 hours. A red-blue color scale depicts the abundance of the metabolites (red, high; blue, low) (n = 2 biologically independent experiments). (F) Cell surface MHC-I expression on YUMM1.7 (n = 3) and 4T1 (n = 3) cells treated with mono-methyl succinate (a cell-permeable form of succinate) dissolved in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) for 48 hours. MHC-I expression is presented as fold change relative to vehicle (PBS) control cells. (G) Whole-cell succinate levels in YUMM1.7 cells cultured in the presence or absence of glutamine for 16 hours, followed by DMSO or 3-NPA treatment for 24 hours (n = 3). (H) Cell surface MHC-I expression on YUMM1.7 cells cultured in the presence or absence of glutamine for 16 hours followed by DMSO or 3-NPA treatment for 24 hours (n = 4). MHC-I expression is presented as fold change relative to DMSO-treated cells cultured in the presence of glutamine. (I) Cell surface MHC-I expression on sgSCR and sgSdhc (CII knockout) YUMM1.7 cells transfected with either siSCR or siOgdh for 72 hours (n = 3). MHC-I expression is presented as fold change relative to cells transfected with siSCR (sgSCR). Data points in each panel represent an independent sample, unless otherwise specified. Data are plotted as means ± SDs. Statistical significance was determined using one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) with Dunnett’s multiple comparisons test for (A), (B), (D), (F), (G), and (H); two-way ANOVA with Dunnett’s multiple comparisons test for (C); and two-way ANOVA with Sidak’s multiple comparisons test for (I).