(A) Schematic for LE/LY delivery of deuterated tracers for metabolism and LC-MS/MS analysis. Deuterated lipids are conjugated to BSA and supplemented in HEK293T-conditioned media after starvation to increase endocytic flux. After several time points, lipids were extracted for LC-MS/MS analysis. (B) Depiction of monitored deuterated phosphatidylglycerol metabolites bearing 5 deuterium atoms in their glycerol moiety. (C) CLN5 knockout HEK293Ts are unable to synthesize deuterated BMP. Intensities for d5-BMP (18:1/18:1) in CLN5 knockout and wild-type HEK293T cells are presented after background subtraction and normalization to endogenous lipids. Data presented as mean ± SD of n = 3 biologically independent samples. (D) Schematic for recombinant BMPS complementation experiment in BMPS deficient lysosomal protein extract. Lysosomes were immunoprecipitated and harvested for proteins. Lysosomal proteins were complemented with recombinant BMPS and supplied with d5-PG (16:0/18:1) under acidic conditions. (E) Lysosomal lysates require BMPS to synthesize BMP. Fold change in the levels of synthesized deuterated BMP species. Data presented as mean ± SD of n = 3 biologically independent samples. (F) Depiction of monitored deuterated phosphatidylcholine metabolites bearing 9 deuterium atoms in their methyl groups. (G) CLN5 knockout HEK293T lysosomes exhibit impaired phospholipid catabolism. Intensities for d9-LPC (18:0) production in CLN5 knockout and wild-type HEK293T cells are presented after background subtraction and normalization to endogenous lipids. Experiment was done as in (A). Data presented as mean ± SD of n = 3 biologically independent samples. (H) Depiction of monitored deuterated glucosylceramide metabolites bearing 5 deuterium atoms in their hydrocarbon chain (I) CLN5 knockout HEK293T lysosomes exhibit impaired GCase activity. Intensities for d5-Hex1Cer (d18:1/18:0) production in CLN5 knockout and wild-type HEK293T cells are presented after background subtraction and normalization to endogenous lipids. Experiment was done as in (A). Data presented as mean ± SD of n = 3 biologically independent samples. (J) CLN5-deficient iNeurons accumulate GM3 gangliosides. Fold changes in lipid species abundance between CLN5 knockout and wild-type HEK293T cells were calculated after subtracting background from control samples and normalizing to endogenous lipids. Data presented as mean ± SD of n = 3 biologically independent samples. (K) BMPS-deficient HEK293Ts have fewer ILVs. Representative electron micrographs of CLN5 knockout and wild-type HEK293T cells. The average number of ILVs within each identified endolysosome per cell are counted with 10 cells per condition. Arrows indicate ILVs. Scale bars, 2 µm. Inset scale bar, 1 µm. EL, endo-lysosome; M, mitochondria. (L) BMPS deficient HEK293T cells accumulate cholesterol. Filipin staining of cholesterol in recombinant BMPS-treated and -untreated CLN5 knockout and wild-type HEK293T cells was determined and are presented relative to WT. Representative data shown for experiment repeated at least three times with 20 cells per condition. Scale bar = 10 µm.