Multiplexed protein analysis of organelle markers in BM MSCs and UC MSCs. (a) Average Pearson’s correlation of the total intensity of 5 markers in BM MSCs and UC MSCs per marker per cell plotted as a heatmap. BM MSCs are shown on the left, UC MSCs are shown in the middle, and combined Pearson’s for each cell is shown on the right. The comparison of the correlation of 5 markers between BM MSCs (n = 7) and UC MSCs (n = 7) was provided as a heatmap using the average linkage method based on the correlation distance. Larger correlation values are shown in red and smaller correlation values are shown in blue. BM MSCs possess more separation between nuclear and cytosolic organelles while UC MSCs are less separated, which illustrates that UC MSC organelles are more spread across the cell. The right side shows the single-cell heatmap for all marker pairs. UC MSCs exhibit higher correlations in DAPI_ATF6, TOM20_ATF6, and Nucleolin_ATF6, suggesting more crosstalk between nuclear and cytosolic organelles. Single BM MSCs exhibit stronger correlations within nuclear or cytosol pairs e.g. Nucleolin_DAPI, GOLPH4_ATF6, TOM20_GOLPH4, implying that nucleus and cytosol organelles are more segregated in BM MSCs, which agrees with the left heatmap. (b) Average pixel overlap colocalization between 5 markers in BM MSCs and UC MSCs per marker per cell plotted as a heatmap. The comparison of pixel overlap between BM MSCs (left) and UC MSCs (middle) was provided as a heatmap using the average linkage method based on the contact frequency distance. The combined pixel overlap on a single cell level is shown on the right. Large pixel overlap values are shown in red and small pixel overlap values are shown in blue. UC MSCs possess slightly higher pixel overlap values among organelles in different compartments (nuclear vs cytoskeleton) but this difference is less pronounced than in (a). A few UC MSCs (10, 12, 13, 14) show distinct patterns from other UC MSCs in terms of weaker pixel overlap in Nucleolin_DAPI, GOLPH4_ATF6, TOM20_GOLPH4, Nucleolin_ATF6, TOM20_Nucleolin. UC MSCs exhibit higher variability in pixel overlap. (c) Heatmaps were generated to compare the morphological features and to determine any close relationships or associations between markers and between BM MSCs (red) and UC MSCs (teal). Morphology is defined as area (left), minor axis (middle), and major axis (right). Both cell types exhibit more differences in minor and major axes and fewer differences in terms of area, implying that organelles differ more in shape and less in expression area. The most notable difference is TOM20, suggesting a difference in mitochondrial energetic activity. Most differences, such as TOM20 and ATF6, are attributable to UC MSCs, suggesting more single-cell variability among UC MSCs. (d) Kolmogorov–Smirnov (K–S) hypothesis test was conducted between organelle marker pairs targeting the mitochondria (TOM20 and HSP60; left) and Golgi (GOLPH4 and Sortilin; right) to study if similar proteins express different spatial distributions within each cell. Single BM MSCs are shown in red while single UC MSCs are shown in teal. In terms of spatial mitochondrial expression, BM MSCs have more single-cell variability while UC MSCs express more uniformly. BM MSCs possess more single-cell variability than UC MSCs concerning spatial ER expression.